HAL_ChibiOS: Add Lectron Pi5 Autopilot board definitions (#33423)
ArduPilot/ardupilot: libraries/AP_HAL_ChibiOS/hwdef/Lectron-Pi5-H7/README.md

- 2x I2C buses
- 1x UART bus
- 1x SPI bus  (1x CS)
- 2x USB 3.0 Type-C
- Micro USB 2.0 (host)

### Other

![dimension](dimension.png)

- Weight: 162.4 g (with Lectron IMU-01 & CM5 Lite & SD cards, without Hailo M2)
- Dimensions: 118.9 (L) x 67.1 (W) x 30.1 (H) mm
- Operating Temperature: -40 to 70 deg C ([field-tested](https://www.linkedin.com/posts/lectron-technologies_built-for-real-world-conditions-activity-7463477408948674560-PGf9?utm_source=share&utm_medium=member_android&rcm=ACoAACmr7Q8BHyqmnEh2X5AYhyyLDlcvQeAd_C8))

## Pinouts

![cm5 view front](cm5_izo_view_conn_front.png)

![cm5 view back](cm5_izo_view_conn_back.png)

![pinout](pinouts.png)

Unless noted otherwise, FMU-side and CM5-side connectors are JST-GH 1.25 mm pitch. USB (Type-C), microSD, CSI-1/CSI-2 (22-pin FFC, 0.5 mm pitch, 4-lane MIPI), M.2 Key-M, micro HDMI, and USB 3.0/2.0 ports use standard pinouts and are not detailed here. CM5 CAN is provided by an MCP2515 controller on SPI1-CS0, independent of the FMU CAN bus.

See the [Lectron Pi5 Autopilot Pinout Reference](https://lectronuser.github.io/Lectron-Doc-Center/md/raspberry/pinout/) for full connector diagrams and FFC pin assignments.

> ### DIP Switch (8-position)

Reviewer: where is this...no image shows it...note the location

| # | Function |
| --- | --- |
| 1 | WiFi disable (active low) |
| 2 | Bluetooth disable (active low) |
| 3 | RPi boot (eMMC boot disable) |
| 4 | EEPROM write protect (active low) |
| 5 | Ethernet sync out |
| 6 | USB OTG ID |
| 7 | PMIC enable |
| 8 | Power button |

> ## Flight Controller UART Mapping

Reviewer: needs a note that all UARTs are DMA capable

| FMU_CH 8    | PH9     | TIM12_CH2       | No    |

## Battery Monitoring

The board defaults to an onboard INA238 I2C voltage sensor on I2C1. This provides voltage sensing only; it has no shunt for current sensing, and no ADC channel is available for battery voltage or current sensing.

An external I2C-compatible power module providing both voltage and current sensing can be connected via the External Power Monitoring port (I2C2).

Alternatively, a DroneCAN power monitor or smart battery can be connected via the CAN port for voltage and current sensing over CAN. The correct battery monitor parameters depend on the power module connected; see `BATT_MONITOR` and related `BATT_*` parameters.

## Compass

There is no compass on the Flight controller board. A BMM350 I2C magnetometer is provided on the Lectron IMU-01 sensor board bundled with the Lectron Pi5 Autopilot.

## IMU Heater

The Lectron-01 Imu board has inbuild 2x 51Ohm Heater resistors. Those are driven by flight controllers heater signal. Those reistor provides 1W rated heating performance overall on imu board for certain temperature range.
The IMU heater can be controlled with the `BRD_HEAT_TARG` parameter, in degrees C.

> ## GPIOs (FMU)

Reviewer: should also  note the IOMCU GPIO numbering for its outputs

The 8 FMU outputs can be used as GPIOs (relays, buttons, RPM etc). To use them you need to set the output's SERVOx_FUNCTION to -1. See GPIOs page for more information.

The numbering of the GPIOs for PIN variables in ArduPilot is:

- PWM1 50
- PWM2 51
- PWM3 52
- PWM4 53
- PWM5 54
- PWM6 55
- PWM7 56
- PWM8 57

Additional GPIOs:

> - NFC_GPIO 59

Reviewer: NFC_GPIO 59 isn't backed by hwdef...PC0 NFC_GPIO has no GPIO() tag in hwdef.dat so this number doesn't actually get assigned...add the tag or drop this line

## Analog Inputs (FMU)

> A normal Pixhawk FMUv6X system provides 2 general-purpose analog voltage input channels (AD1/AD2) on the PAB connector, but the Lectron Pi5 Autopilot does not expose these for external use. The only analog inputs available externally are the RSSI input on the SBUS/RC connector (see [RC Input](#rc-input)).

Reviewer: RSSI_ANA_PIN number should be noted

Reviewer: to be clear: this needs an actual RSSI_ANA_PIN added to hwdef.dat first...nothing RSSI-related is defined there currently, so there's no pin/number to note yet. pick the ADC pin off the SBUS/RC connector and add the define, then note the number here

## Connectors

Unless otherwise noted, all connectors are JST-GH.

> The PAB Standard Debug connectors are JST-SH, and the fan connector is JST-SH.

## Typical Wiring Diagram

Pin 1 of each port is marked in red.

![wiring diagram](cm5_wiring.png)

## Firmware

Firmware for the Lectron Pi5-H7 can be found [here](https://firmware.ardupilot.org)

## Loading Firmware

> Build the bootloader and vehicle firmware from an ArduPilot source checkout with waf:

Reviewer: remove all build instructions...firmware will be provide on the firmware server...if you ship without bootloader/firmware (why ???) then the section on SWD installation is warranted...also you should note that once the firmware is installed, updates can be made with *.apj files in GCSs

- 1x UART bus
- 1x SPI bus  (1x CS)
- 2x USB 3.0 Type-C
- Micro USB 2.0 (host)

### Other

![dimension](dimension.png)

- Weight: 162.4 g (with Lectron IMU-01 & CM5 Lite & SD cards, without Hailo M2)
- Dimensions: 118.9 (L) x 67.1 (W) x 30.1 (H) mm
- Operating Temperature: -40 to 70 deg C ([field-tested](https://www.linkedin.com/posts/lectron-technologies_built-for-real-world-conditions-activity-7463477408948674560-PGf9?utm_source=share&utm_medium=member_android&rcm=ACoAACmr7Q8BHyqmnEh2X5AYhyyLDlcvQeAd_C8))

## Pinouts

![cm5 view front](cm5_izo_view_conn_front.png)

![cm5 view back](cm5_izo_view_conn_back.png)

![pinout](pinouts.png)

Unless noted otherwise, FMU-side and CM5-side connectors are JST-GH 1.25 mm pitch. USB (Type-C), microSD, CSI-1/CSI-2 (22-pin FFC, 0.5 mm pitch, 4-lane MIPI), M.2 Key-M, micro HDMI, and USB 3.0/2.0 ports use standard pinouts and are not detailed here. CM5 CAN is provided by an MCP2515 controller on SPI1-CS0, independent of the FMU CAN bus.

See the [Lectron Pi5 Autopilot Pinout Reference](https://lectronuser.github.io/Lectron-Doc-Center/md/raspberry/pinout/) for full connector diagrams and FFC pin assignments.

### DIP Switch (8-position)

> DIP switches are used for the Raspberry Pi CM5. 

Reviewer: Almost finished! This says what the switches are for, but not where they are, which is what I asked for. The reason I couldn't find them is that they go by three different names: the README calls them "DIP Switch", panel 23 of `pinouts.png` now calls them "DIP SWITCH", and the board photo labels the actual part `CM SWITCH`. Tie the names together and give the location:

```suggestion
The DIP switches are located on the top face next to the GPS2 connector, labeled `CM SWITCH` on the board, and configure the Raspberry Pi CM5.
```
